9/10/21, 8:42 AM

COIS-4350H-A: High Performance Computing (2021FA - Peterborough Campus)

COIS-4350H-A: High Performance Computing
2021FA - Peterborough Campus

Instructor:
Instructor: Brian Srivastava
Email Address: bsrivastava@trentu.ca
Phone Number: 705-748-1011 x7092
Office: OC 230
Office Hours: TBA

Meeting Times:
The course will consist of weekly meetings Fridays 14:00-15:50 on ENW 111 and a lab Mondays from 14:00-14:50 in OC202. Check the
Academic timetable for updates to rooms and times.
http://www.trentu.ca/timetable/

Department:
Academic Administrative Assistant: Bonnie MacKinnon
Email Address: cois@trentu.ca
Phone Number: 7802
Office: OC 102.6

Description:
High Performance Computing is the use of advanced computer architectures to solve problems which require significant processing
power, memory access, or storage. Core topics include advanced computer architectures, programming for shared and distributed memory
machines, networking issues, caching, performance evaluation and parallel algorithms. Topics are supplemented with case studies.

Learning Outcomes:
Students will be expected to demonstrate mastery of high-performance concepts including both theory and programming practice.
Students will also be expected to research an area of HPC not covered in class and be able independently develop working code and solve a
problem in their chosen area.

Texts:
High Performance Computing, Modern Systems and Practices 1st Edition, Authors: Thomas Sterling Matthew Anderson Maciej Brodowicz

Readings:
Students may be expected to watch tutorials on HPC concepts on Compute Canada/SHARCNET
https://www.sharcnet.ca/help/index.php/Main_Page
and https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCCRmb5_GMWT2hSlALHlwIMg
Students may also find it helpful to watch the video lectures which accompany the
textbook: https://iu.mediaspace.kaltura.com/channel/channelid/6563362

Assessments, Assignments and Tests:
Weekly Tech: Each week students will be expected to individually follow tutorials and show that they can test and minimally use each of the
listed technologies or concepts. These weekly events will partially build on previous weeks.
Assignments: Assignments will be a combination of programming questions and theory questions to demonstrate understanding of the
material. Assignments cover Linux setup and use, parallel computing concepts, including algorithms and data structures, and cluster topics
including architecture and execution. Because much of the purpose of HPC is in solving numerical problems, students will be expected to learn
some numerical methods.
https://my.trentu.ca/portal/applications/syllabus/detailPrint.php?syllabusId=17131

1/3

9/10/21, 8:42 AM

COIS-4350H-A: High Performance Computing (2021FA - Peterborough Campus)

Research Project: In the research project students will be expected to explore an area of HPC which we aren’t actively discussing in depth in
class and assignments

Grading:
Weekly Labs: 10% total, best 10/11 labs. The last week will only have time for review questions and won't be a lab.
Assignment 1: 10% Benchmarking, writing HPC code, Due Sept 24th
Assignment 2: 10% Parallel Computing Tools, Due oct 22nd
Assignment 3: 10% Parallel Tools for Clusters, Nov 12th
Assignment 4: 10% Parallel Algorithms/Data structures, Due Nov 26th
Research Project: 20% Due at the final exam
Final Exam: 30%
The final exam will be scheduled during the Fall exam period, students are expected to be available for the whole exam period which is Dec
10th to 24th.

Grade Total by Withdrawal Date:
Students will have approximately 5 labs, 3 assignments graded by the withdrawal deadline; these total to 35% of a student’s final grade.
The final date to withdraw from this course is Nov 9th

Schedule:
Lecture Topics, Approximately 2 per week
1. Introduction
2. HPC Architecture
3. Commodity Clusters
4. Benchmarking
5. The Essential Moab
6. SMP
7. The Essential OpenMP
8. The Essential MPI
9. Parallel Algorithms
10. Libraries
11. Operating Systems
12. Scientific Visualization
13. Performance Monitoring
14. Debugging
15. Accelerators
16. Essential OpenACC
17. Mass Storage
18. File Systems
19. Map Reduce
20. Checkpointing
21. Beyond (Next Steps)
Each week students will be expected to complete a weekly programming related tutorial/exercise in the labs

Course Guidelines:
While there is no attendance mark in this course, students are expected to regularly attend and perform the laboratory exercises.
Late Assignments will have a penalty of 10% per working day, for a maximum of 5 working days after which material will be not be accepted.
Late labs are not accepted.
Students are expected and encouraged to bring a laptop to the lab sessions and to collaborate with other students. Assignments are to be
done individually. Group work for the final project will need to be agreed to with the instructor before the project is started.
In the event that this course runs in parallel with the AMOD High performance computing, students will not be permitted to work in groups with
graduate students, without exception. The scope and nature of the projects is not the same between the two courses.

Departmental Policies:
Email Accounts
The Trent e-mail account is considered the official e-mail account and will be the only e-mail account used to communicate with students for
academic and administrative purposes. Students are responsible for ensuring that they monitor and maintain their Trent e-mail account and to
ensure that e-mail is accessed, read, and acted upon in a timely fashion. Students should be aware that e-mails from non-Trent accounts will
not be considered official.
https://my.trentu.ca/portal/applications/syllabus/detailPrint.php?syllabusId=17131

2/3

9/10/21, 8:42 AM

COIS-4350H-A: High Performance Computing (2021FA - Peterborough Campus)

University Policies:
Academic Integrity
Academic dishonesty, which includes plagiarism and cheating, is an extremely serious academic offence and carries penalties varying from
failure on an assignment to expulsion from the University. Definitions, penalties, and procedures for dealing with plagiarism and cheating are
set out in Trent University’s Academic Integrity Policy. You have a responsibility to educate yourself – unfamiliarity with the policy is not an
excuse. You are strongly encouraged to visit Trent’s Academic Integrity website to learn more: www.trentu.ca/academicintegrity.

Access to Instruction
It is Trent University's intent to create an inclusive learning environment. If a student has a disability and documentation from a regulated health
care practitioner and feels that they may need accommodations to succeed in a course, the student should contact the Student Accessibility
Services Office (SAS) at the respective campus as soon as possible.

Sharing and Distribution of Course Content
Students in this class should be aware that classroom activities (lecture, seminars, labs, etc.) may be recorded for teaching and learning
purposes. Any students with concerns about being recorded in a classroom context should speak with their professor. If a student shares or
distributes course content in any way that breaches copyright legislation, privacy legislation, and/or this policy, the student will be subject to
disciplinary actions under the Student Charter of Rights and Responsibilities or the relevant Academic Integrity Policy, at a minimum, and may
be subject to legal consequences that are outside of the responsibility of the university. More details on sharing of course content are described
in the policy found
here: https://www.trentu.ca/artsci/sites/trentu.ca.artsci/files/documents/Policy%20on%20Sharing%20and%20Distribution%20of%20Course%20Co
08-14.pdf

Student Absenteeism, Missed Tests and Examinations
Students are responsible for completing all course requirements, including attending classes and meeting assignment deadlines as specified on
their syllabus.
Adjustments and deferrals to dates for participation, assignment submissions, tests, midterms and final examinations are not automatic. It is the
student’s responsibility to email their instructor immediately if they are unable to fulfill academic requirements.
Courses delivered remotely may involve student participation in scheduled (synchronous) classes via web-based platforms, such as Zoom.
Students unable to participate (i.e., by video and/or audio) should email their instructors to request alternative arrangements for participation in
these scheduled (synchronous) classes.
Students are required to be available for all tests, midterms and exams that are listed in their course syllabus and scheduled by their instructor or
the Office of the Registrar. Depending on their program, the instructor or the chair/director may decide on alternative arrangements for exams
and tests. Normally a doctor’s note or supporting documentation is not required; however, when a student’s success in the course or program
is in jeopardy as determined by the instructor or chair/director, documentation may be requested.
Specific SAS accommodations can be implemented for students registered with Student Accessibility Services (SAS), but it is the responsibility of
the student to make these arrangements in advance as per SAS guidelines, and to discuss accommodations of due dates with their instructors.
Students can notify the Office of the Registrar of their wish to observe cultural or religious holidays during scheduled examination periods by
the deadline set in the Academic Calendar. Personal travel plans are not acceptable reasons for missing tests or exams.

Print

https://my.trentu.ca/portal/applications/syllabus/detailPrint.php?syllabusId=17131

3/3

